# Pipes and Filters Pattern

This document describes the Pipes and Filters Pattern example from the guide [Cloud Design Patterns](http://aka.ms/Cloud-Design-Patterns).

## System Requirements

* Microsoft .NET Framework version 4.5
* Microsoft Visual Studio 2015 Community, Enterprise, or Professional
* Windows Azure SDK for .NET version 2.9

## Before you start

Ensure that you have installed all of the software prerequisites.

The example demonstrates operational aspects of applications running in Windows Azure. Therefore, you will need to use the diagnostics tools in order to understand how the code sample works. You **must** ensure that the web and worker roles in the solution are configured to use the diagnostics mechanism. If not, you will not see the trace information generated by the example.

## About the Example
 
This example contains two filters that could perform some part of the overall processing for a task. The two filters are combined into a pipeline; the output of one filter is passed as the input to the next. The filters are implemented as separate worker roles and a Windows Azure Service Bus queue provides the infrastructure that acts as the pipe.


## Running the Example

You can run this example locally in the Visual Studio Windows Azure emulator. You can also run this example by deploying it to a Windows Azure Cloud Service.

* Start Visual Studio using an account that has Administrator privileges ("Run as Administrator").
* Open the solution you want to explore from the subfolders where you downloaded the examples.
* Right-click on each role in Solution Explorer, select Properties, and ensure that the role is configured to generate diagnostic information.
* Provision a Windows Azure Service Bus Namespace
* Edit the ServiceBus.ConnectionString setting by changing "[SERVICE BUS CONNECTION STRING]" to your own Service Bus endpoint in the following files for every role in the solution:
	* ServiceConfiguration.Cloud.csfg if you will run the example on Windows Azure.
	* ServiceConfiguration.Local.csfg if you will run the example in the Windows Azure Emulator. (you can update settings by right-clicking on each of the roles and selecting Properties, or by editing the files directly in the main Visual Studio window.)
* If you want to run the example in the local Windows Azure emulator:
	* Press F5 in Visual Studio to start the example running. 
	* Open the Windows Azure Compute Emulator UI from the icon in the notification area.
	* Select each role in turn and view the diagnostic information generated by Trace statements in the code.
* If you want to run the example on Windows Azure:
	* Provision a Windows Azure Cloud Service and deploy the application to it from Visual Studio. 
	* Open the Server Explorer Window in Visual Studio and expand the Windows Azure entry.
	* Expand Cloud Services and then expand the entry for the solution you deployed.
	* Right-click each role instance and select View Diagnostics Data to see the diagnostic information generated by Trace statements in the code. This is written to the WADLogsTable in the Storage/Development/Tables section.
